Future.md, before:

Placeholders for `docker-compose.yaml` file, mostly accepted as command parameters or defined in the application recipe file:

- {{main_domain}}
- {{domains}}
- {{environment}}
- {{composer_version}}

Pull templates from the repository. Implement ability do add and remove multiple repositories with templates

`composition:template:list-all` - filter packages by name or supported package? Delete and use meta only!
`composition:template:meta` - filter packages by name or supported package

-----

`php_7.0_apache:php-apache` - select runner and set service to link other services to

Parameter and options meaning example:
- `{{composer_version}}` - nothing special here
- `{{domains:0}}` - get the first value from array (space-separated values)
- `{{domains| }}` - implode the parameter using ' ' (empty string) as a separator
- `{{domains|,|'}}` - implode the parameter using ' ' (empty string) as a separator, enclose values with single quotes
- `{{domains:1|,|'}`} - not a valid value (ambiguous shortcode)

Custom Dockerfiles: should implement ability to use custom Dockerfiles for compositions, and provide parameters to these
Dockerfiles as we do this for docker-compose.yml and mounted files

Commit message:

Better handling the case when multiple services from the same group are passed to input. It is now possible to reuse the same service for multiple groups

Future.md, after:

Placeholders for `docker-compose.yaml` file, mostly accepted as command parameters or defined in the application recipe file:

- {{main_domain}}
- {{domains}}
- {{environment}}
- {{composer_version}}

Pull templates from the repository. Implement ability do add and remove multiple repositories with templates

`composition:template:list-all` - filter packages by name or supported package? Delete and use meta only!
`composition:template:meta` - filter packages by name or supported package

-----

Custom Dockerfiles: should implement ability to use custom Dockerfiles for compositions, and provide parameters to these
Dockerfiles as we do this for docker-compose.yml and mounted files


--- Notes ---

1. Runner yaml does not override configuration of additional services.
2. Group name must not match service name in this group. Otherwise, the input may be ambiguous.

Adding parameters and processing parameter value:

- {{composer_version}} - nothing special here
- {{domains|first}} - get the first value from array (space-separated values)
- {{domains|first|replace:.:-}} - get the first value and replace `.` (dot) with `-` (dash)
- {{domains|enclose:'}} - enclose a single value or all array values with quotes
- {{domains|explode:,}} - explode value to array, use ',' (comma) as a separator
- {{domains|implode:,}} - implode array to string, use ',' (comma) as a separator
